README.md, before:

# color
`color` is a JavaScript library for color conversion and manipulation with support for CSS color strings.

```javascript
var color = Color("#7743CE");

color.alpha(0.5).lighten(0.5);

console.log(color.hslString());  // "hsla(262, 59%, 81%, 0.5)"
```	

## Install

### browser
Download the latest [color.js](https://github.com/harthur/color/tree/gh-pages). The `Color` object is exported.

### node
For [node](http://nodejs.org) with [npm](http://npmjs.org):

```bash
npm install color
```

And use with `var Color = require("color")`

## API

### Setters

```javascript
var color = Color("rgb(255, 255, 255)")
var color = Color({r: 255, g: 255, b: 255})
var color = Color().rgb(255, 255, 255)
var color = Color().rgb([255, 255, 255])
```
Pass any valid CSS color string into `Color()` or a hash of values. Also load in color values with `rgb()`, `hsl()`, `hsv()`,and `cmyk()`.

```javascript
color.red(120)
```
Set the values for individual channels with `alpha`, `red`, `green`, `blue`, `hue`, `saturation` (hsl), `saturationv` (hsv), `lightness`, `cyan`, `magenta`, `yellow`, `black`

### Getters


```javascript
color.rgb()       // {r: 255, g: 255, b: 255}
```
Get a hash of the rgb values with `rgb()`, similarly for `hsl()`, `hsv()`, and `cmyk()`

```javascript
color.rgbArray()  // [255, 255, 255]
```
Get an array of the values with `rgbArray()`, `hslArray()`, `hsvArray()`, and `cmykArray()`.

```javascript
color.red()       // 255
```
Get the value for an individual channel.

### CSS Strings

```javascript
color.hslString()  // "hsl(320, 50%, 100%)"
```

Different CSS String formats for the color are on `hexString`, `rgbString`, `percentString`, `hslString`, and `keyword` (undefined if it's not a keyword color). `"rgba"` and `"hsla"` are used if the current alpha value of the color isn't `1`.

### Luminosity

```javascript
color.luminosity();  // 0.412
```
The [WCAG luminosity](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#relativeluminancedef) of the color. 0 is black, 1 is white.

```javascript
color.contrast(Color("blue"))  // 12
```
The [WCAG contrast ratio](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#contrast-ratiodef) to another color, from 1 (same color) to 21 (contrast b/w white and black).

```javascript
color.light();  // true
color.dark();   // false
```
Get whether the color is "light" or "dark", useful for deciding text color.

### Manipulation

```javascript
color.negate()         // rgb(0, 100, 255) -> rgb(255, 155, 0)

color.lighten(0.5)     // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 50%, 75%)
color.darken(0.5)      // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 50%, 25%)

color.saturate(0.5)    // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 75%, 50%)
color.desaturate(0.5)  // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 25%, 50%)
color.greyscale()      // #5CBF54 -> #969696

color.clearer(0.5)     // rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.8) -> rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.4)
color.opaquer(0.5)     // rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.8) -> rgba(10, 10, 10, 1.0)

color.rotate(180)      // hsl(60, 20%, 20%) -> hsl(240, 20%, 20%)
color.rotate(-90)      // hsl(60, 20%, 20%) -> hsl(330, 20%, 20%)

color.mix(Color("yellow"))   // cyan -> rgb(128, 255, 128)

// chaining
color.green(100).greyscale().lighten(0.6)
```

And more to come...

## Propers

The API was inspired by [color-js](https://github.com/brehaut/color-js). Manipulation functions by CSS tools like Sass, LESS, and Stylus.

Commit message:

Add `clone()` function to copy color object
This function uses `this.rgb()` to "serialize" the color object and pass
it to the Color constructor to create a new color object with values
equal to the original.

The new function is documented in the readme.

There are tests to make sure the values of the cloned object match the
original and that if the cloned object is manipulated the original
object does not change.

README.md, after:

# color
`color` is a JavaScript library for color conversion and manipulation with support for CSS color strings.

```javascript
var color = Color("#7743CE");

color.alpha(0.5).lighten(0.5);

console.log(color.hslString());  // "hsla(262, 59%, 81%, 0.5)"
```	

## Install

### browser
Download the latest [color.js](https://github.com/harthur/color/tree/gh-pages). The `Color` object is exported.

### node
For [node](http://nodejs.org) with [npm](http://npmjs.org):

```bash
npm install color
```

And use with `var Color = require("color")`

## API

### Setters

```javascript
var color = Color("rgb(255, 255, 255)")
var color = Color({r: 255, g: 255, b: 255})
var color = Color().rgb(255, 255, 255)
var color = Color().rgb([255, 255, 255])
```
Pass any valid CSS color string into `Color()` or a hash of values. Also load in color values with `rgb()`, `hsl()`, `hsv()`,and `cmyk()`.

```javascript
color.red(120)
```
Set the values for individual channels with `alpha`, `red`, `green`, `blue`, `hue`, `saturation` (hsl), `saturationv` (hsv), `lightness`, `cyan`, `magenta`, `yellow`, `black`

### Getters


```javascript
color.rgb()       // {r: 255, g: 255, b: 255}
```
Get a hash of the rgb values with `rgb()`, similarly for `hsl()`, `hsv()`, and `cmyk()`

```javascript
color.rgbArray()  // [255, 255, 255]
```
Get an array of the values with `rgbArray()`, `hslArray()`, `hsvArray()`, and `cmykArray()`.

```javascript
color.red()       // 255
```
Get the value for an individual channel.

### CSS Strings

```javascript
color.hslString()  // "hsl(320, 50%, 100%)"
```

Different CSS String formats for the color are on `hexString`, `rgbString`, `percentString`, `hslString`, and `keyword` (undefined if it's not a keyword color). `"rgba"` and `"hsla"` are used if the current alpha value of the color isn't `1`.

### Luminosity

```javascript
color.luminosity();  // 0.412
```
The [WCAG luminosity](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#relativeluminancedef) of the color. 0 is black, 1 is white.

```javascript
color.contrast(Color("blue"))  // 12
```
The [WCAG contrast ratio](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#contrast-ratiodef) to another color, from 1 (same color) to 21 (contrast b/w white and black).

```javascript
color.light();  // true
color.dark();   // false
```
Get whether the color is "light" or "dark", useful for deciding text color.

### Manipulation

```javascript
color.negate()         // rgb(0, 100, 255) -> rgb(255, 155, 0)

color.lighten(0.5)     // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 50%, 75%)
color.darken(0.5)      // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 50%, 25%)

color.saturate(0.5)    // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 75%, 50%)
color.desaturate(0.5)  // hsl(100, 50%, 50%) -> hsl(100, 25%, 50%)
color.greyscale()      // #5CBF54 -> #969696

color.clearer(0.5)     // rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.8) -> rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.4)
color.opaquer(0.5)     // rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.8) -> rgba(10, 10, 10, 1.0)

color.rotate(180)      // hsl(60, 20%, 20%) -> hsl(240, 20%, 20%)
color.rotate(-90)      // hsl(60, 20%, 20%) -> hsl(330, 20%, 20%)

color.mix(Color("yellow"))   // cyan -> rgb(128, 255, 128)

// chaining
color.green(100).greyscale().lighten(0.6)
```

### Clone

You can can create a copy of an existing color object using `clone()`:

```javascript
color.clone() // -> New color object
```

And more to come...

## Propers

The API was inspired by [color-js](https://github.com/brehaut/color-js). Manipulation functions by CSS tools like Sass, LESS, and Stylus.
